# Excel Assessment  
For this assessment you will use data generated by fivethirtyeight.com about the NBA from 2014-2020. The original data can be found here: https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/nba-raptor.

### A brief orientation to basketball as it pertains to this dataset (for those who need it)  
In basketball a team consists of multiple players, only a few of which play at a given time. Two teams compete to score the most points and win the game. Plays can be subdivided into _*offensive*_, where a team attempts to increase it's point total, and _*defensive*_, where a team attempts to prevent the other team from increasing their point total. Teams compete against each other over a period of time, called the _*regular season*_. At the end of the _*regular season*_ teams are ranked based on their ratio of wins to losses, and the top teams compete in the _*playoffs*_, also called the _*post season*_. During the _*playoffs*_ teams must win to continue playing, and the last team remaining wins.

This is repeated each year, or _*season*_. The data set separates the _*regular season (RS)*_ from the _*playoffs (PO)*_. The _*team*_ a player plays for during a given _*season*_ is also noted. This can vary from year to year as players are traded between teams.

This dataset gives numerical values for multiple _*offensive*_ and _*defensive*_ measures, as well as comparing the _*regular season*_ to the _*playoffs*_. Each row represents a single player for a given season, season type (_*RS*_ or _*PO*_) and team.

Note: RAPTOR and WAR are acronyms for the calculation used, not team names or the actual word. RAPTOR stands for "Robust Algorithm (using) Player Tracking (and) On/Off Ratings" and WAR stands for "Wins Above Replacement".

## Questions  
_Record your answers to all your questions in the *answers* sheet. You may add additional sheets that are subsets of the original dataset but your final answers must appear in the *answers* sheet. There are clearly labeled spots for each answer. Unless explicitly stated you can use whatever approach you want to answer the questions, but you should include formulas to produce your answers and not simply paste the values into the answer sheet._

1. Calculate the mean, median, min, and max for `predator_offense`, `predator_defense`, `predator_total`, and `pace_impact`.

2. Use a formula to find which player had the highest `predator_offense` and which player had the highest `predator_defense`. Also pull in the `season`, `season_type`, and `team` for each.

3. Calculate the sum of the `war_total` for Atlanta (ATL) players.

4. 
    a. Find the values of the first, second, and third quartiles for `war_playoffs` in 2016. Hint: You may need to copy the 2016 data into a new sheet, but your answer should still be in the `answers` sheet. Be sure to only take rows from the playoffs (`PO`).  
    b. Get the names of players in the **top 25%** of `war_playoffs` in 2016. 

5. James Harden, LeBron James, Giannis Antetokounmpo, Kawhi Leonard, and Rudy Gobert are the top 5 players in 2020, according to fivethirtyeight.com, where these data came from (https://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/2020-nba-player-ratings/).

    a. Filter `season` to 2020 and `season_type` to "RS" and copy it to a new sheet named RS_2020.

    b. For each of these 5 players, use a `VLOOKUP` on the table in RS_2020 to get their `raptor_offense`, `raptor_defense`, and `war_reg_season` in 2020. Once you have those values, answer the following questions:  
    * Which of the top 5 was the best offensive player?  
    * Which of the top 5 was the best defensive player?  
    * Which of the top 5 was most valuable during the regular season?  
    * Create a visualization that best represents your findings.

6. Use a pivot table to observe each team's total `war_reg_season` for each year. Make a visualization to represent the data. List 3 teams that have a generally positive trend and 3 that have a generally negative trend over the entire time frame (no need for additional calculations, just use the visualization and the pivot table).